---
title: "Developing Music Apps for Samsung Active 2 Watch"
date: 2020-04-28T18:44:11-07:00
draft: false
toc: false
images:
tags:
  - C++, Tizen, App Development, Music
---

My housemate was gifted a Samsung Active 2 Watch for her birthday. 
She wasn't too thrilled about it, and I knew it had an accelerometer, so I asked if I could play around with it. 
I started thinking about using it for MIDI aftertouch effects using the accelerometer. 
I searched the Samsung app store to see if there were any existing apps with similar features. 
I discovered that the number of apps currently available was quite small, and unsurprisingly, 
there were no music-related apps whatsoever. Most items in the store were either watch face skins or 
fitness trackers.  

My first step was to download Tizen Studio from Samsung and install it on my iMac. The installation was fairly painless.
Ideally, my goal was to create a native app for the watch, written in C++, to connect directly to the computer to transfer MIDI
information via bluetooth, without the need to connect to a separate phone app. After some troubleshooting (sometimes the watch
would skip asking for permissions, making it impossible to connect), I was able to connect and load the first template app, "Hello Tizen"
onto the watch. The next step is to figure out how to make different UI elements to display relevent info and for debug purposes.  

Once I become more familiar with this development environment I may write a tutorial as a future post so that others don't have to struggle to find answers like I did.

To be continued...
